One solution to this problem is to use machine learning to discover not only
the mapping from representation to output but also the representation itself.
This approach is known as representation learning . Learned representations
often result in much better performance than can be obtained with hand-designed
representations. They also enable AI systems to rapidly adapt to new tasks, with
minimal human intervention. A representation learning algorithm can discover a
good set of features for a simple task in minutes, or for a complex task in hours to
months. Manually designing features for a complex task requires a great deal of
human time and effort; it can take decades for an entire community of researchers.
The quintessential example of a representation learning algorithm is the au-
toencoder . An autoencoder is the combination of an encoder function, which
converts the input data into a different representation, and a decoder function,
which converts the new representation back into the original format. Autoencoders
are trained to preserve as much information as possible when an input is run
through the encoder and then the decoder, but they are also trained to make the
new representation have various nice properties. Different kinds of autoencoders
aim to achieve different kinds of properties.

When designing features or algorithms for learning features, our goal is usually
to separate the factors of variation that explain the observed data. In this
context, we use the word "factors" simply to refer to separate sources of influence;
the factors are usually not combined by multiplication. Such factors are often not
quantities that are directly observed. Instead, they may exist as either unobserved
objects or unobserved forces in the physical world that affect observable quantities.
They may also exist as constructs in the human mind that provide useful simplifying
explanations or inferred causes of the observed data. They can be thought of as
concepts or abstractions that help us make sense of the rich variability in the data.
When analyzing a speech recording, the factors of variation include the speaker’s
age, their sex, their accent and the words they are speaking. When analyzing an
image of a car, the factors of variation include the position of the car, its color,
and the angle and brightness of the sun.
A major source of difficulty in many real-world artificial intelligence applications
is that many of the factors of variation influence every single piece of data we are
able to observe. The individual pixels in an image of a red car might be very close
to black at night. The shape of the car's silhouette depends on the viewing angle.
Most applications require us to disentangle the factors of variation and discard the
ones that we do not care about.

Of course, it can be very difficult to extract such high-level, abstract features
from raw data. Many of these factors of variation, such as a speaker's accent,
can be identified only using sophisticated, nearly human-level understanding of
the data. When it is nearly as difficult to obtain a representation as to solve the
original problem, representation learning does not, at first glance, seem to help us.
Deep learning solves this central problem in representation learning by intro-
ducing representations that are expressed in terms of other, simpler representations.

